---
layout: wiki_archive
---

## OpenAg EDU

This is a space to collect the OpenAg community's insights, materials,
and recommendations for introducing Food Computers into the education
context - for students and adults, in-school and after-school, in
libraries, community centers, museums - and inspire and empower the
high-tech farmers of the future.

Since 2015, the "OpenAg EDU" project at the MIT Media Lab has been
piloting Food Computers in classrooms in a grassroots effort to help
students learn STEAM skills and engage in a hands-on, citizen science
project on the future of agriculture, including work to mitigate its
environmental impact.

More than 80% of the teachers who've tested Food Computers
agreed/strongly agreed that they are a good tool to teach different
disciplines and generate academic curricula. OpenAg EDU wants to work
with educators all over the world to build high-impact, transformational
educational practices that spark self-reflection, broaden frames of
reference, and connect with students from diverse backgrounds.

### Getting Started

  - Build a [PFC v3.0 - the PFC\_EDU](pfc_edu_3.0.md), released in October
    2018.
  - See students and teachers who helped OpenAg at MIT Media Lab [test
    Personal Food Computers in
    classrooms](http://forum.openag.media.mit.edu/t/2017-spring-semester-food-computing-in-education-beta-test/1450)
    in 2017.
  - Take a look at what some [libraries are doing with Food
    Computers](http://forum.openag.media.mit.edu/t/libraries-food-computers-plix-build-public-library-innovation-exchange-at-mit-media-lab/2895)
    in 2018.
  - If you'd like to start simply, an [MVP PFC](mvp_1/index.md) is minimalist
    version that was developed by OpenAg Community members.
  - The [Foam
    Farm](https://github.com/OpenAgricultureFoundation/FoamFarmActivity) is a
    2-day activity is suitable for high school students. It's a WIP, and
    was piloted with the 2016 National Geographic Student Expeditions

### Community Contributions

Add a link to your favorite growing resource, lessons/lesson plans,
Common Core/NGS tracks here...

<span class="underline">From the Open Agriculture Initiative at the MIT
Media Lab</span>

![NextGen Middle School Science Education Standards for Food
Computers](/static/assets/wiki/nextgen_middle_school_science_education_standards_-_food_computer.pdf)
*(Source: Jordan Rogoff (2016); The Open Agriculture Initiative, MIT
Media Lab)*

<span class="underline">i2 Learning & OpenAg PFC v3.0 Educator
Guides</span>

![](/static/assets/wiki/pfc3/pfc_edu_assembly_instructions.pdf)

<span class="underline">Green Street Academy Food Computer
curriculum</span>

![Green Street Academy Food Computer
Program](/static/assets/wiki/food_computer_program_green_street_academy_outliine.pdf)
*(Source: Melanie Shimano (2018); Green Street Academy* *Refer to
Melanie's [post on the
forum](http://forum.openag.media.mit.edu/t/calling-all-educators-whos-using-food-computers-in-schools/515/44?u=openagfoundation)
for context on building foam farms and more. *

<span class="underline">MARSfarm</span>

![PowerPoint curriculum
outline/draft](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1RLmQlflU4t8nnGuxdMkRbbjyagEI0jomLNTWbQvvPRA/edit#slide=id.p)
*(Source: Peter Webb (2018); MARSfarm LLC) Here is a forum post with
more information about this curriculum: [MARSfarm
Curriculum](http://forum.openag.media.mit.edu/t/growing-plants-in-space-marsfarm-curriculum/3056)*

Open-source beta of MARSfarm: ![Minimum Viable Product Food
Computer](mvp_1/index.md)

<span class="underline">FCS4ALL 3rd-5th Grade Curriculum</span>

![FCS4ALL Food Computer/Computer Science Curriculum for 3rd-5th
Graders](https://fcs4all.github.io/resources/FCS4ALL_CURRICULUM.pdf)
*(Source: FCS4ALL (2019)); Here is a forum post with more information
about this curriculum: ![FCS4ALL Curriculum
Website](https://forum.openag.media.mit.edu/t/calling-all-educators-whos-using-food-computers-in-schools/515/71)*

### Additional Resources

<span class="underline">Fairchild Challenge - Growing Beyond
Earth</span>

![Growing Beyond
Earth](https://sites.google.com/site/hsfairchildchalenge/challenge-6)
//(Source: Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden in collaboration with NASA
(2017);

Watch this TED talk to learn more about their program: [TED
Talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RlFoNrxdLN8)

Research protocol used in classrooms to collect standardized data:
![Fairchild Research
Protocol](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0By4-LqkRD3N4Ymg4VmV6TTJtbHc/view)
